Caption: all right good morning everyone welcome
Caption: to the first session for Triple D Perth
Caption: I'm not going to give too much of an
Caption: intro I'll just hand you straight over
Caption: to our speaker matrixes so firstly
Caption: thanks to our sponsors they're
Caption: volunteers without that today wouldn't
Caption: happen
Caption: and particularly Bank west where I do my
Caption: day job and by night I might do a matrix
Caption: so the background dependency injection
Caption: like well most people should probably
Caption: know what that is in this room I hope
Caption: we're effectively just taking a
Caption: parameter here injecting in there and
Caption: kind of that allows us to put in
Caption: different implementations and bits and
Caption: pieces and you know we can start
Caption: managing our dependencies and wiring it
Caption: all up and then we kind of all agree on
Caption: that's dependency injection you can't do
Caption: it in spring unity various other
Caption: frameworks and so forth might disagree
Caption: about constructor or field injection but
Caption: you know we can have healthy debates
Caption: then we get to inversion of control
Caption: website well what's this thing it's got
Caption: principles it's this but something to do
Caption: with flows something to do with abstract
Caption: not talking to details if you actually
Caption: read the Stack Overflow about trying to
Caption: answer what it is there's arguments and
Caption: really it's actually explaining
Caption: dependency injection so when I come to
Caption: inversion control
Caption: I actually asked the prints question
Caption: control of what so this is where I'm
Caption: gonna start saying this is something
Caption: that was before your eyes and I've
Caption: already shown you the Oh a matrix so
Caption: this is the last chance is the
Caption: opportunity I'm giving you the red pill
Caption: last chance to walk out you're not gonna
Caption: be able to unsee this so to make it
Caption: easier for you to see what's going on
Caption: there be a fear of the 500 matrix
Caption: problems on the screen one of them is
Caption: being solved
Caption: what dependency injection actually
Caption: solved is it remove the parameters for
Caption: the caller there's no longer need to be
Caption: provided by the caller they're injected
Caption: in I don't now need to provide those
Caption: parameters it's much much looser
Caption: coupling I don't have to provide those
Caption: details from the caller and I have to
Caption: have you know this might be called from
Caption: a hundred different places I don't have
Caption: to provide that anymore that coupling is
Caption: actually gone however what about the
Caption: rest of the method what about the return
Caption: type the method name the exceptions the
Caption: executing method is doing executing
Caption: thread when we actually look at the
Caption: method there are actually five aspects
Caption: of coupling to it any changing any one
Caption: of these means you have to change all
Caption: your calls or your client calls have
Caption: change now think about oh yeah that's
Caption: okay and my little method in my little
Caption: class and doing my bits and pieces but
Caption: if I'm writing a library
Caption: I'm writing an API and I have to change
Caption: one of those things I have to change it
Caption: everywhere every call to it has to
Caption: change so what we tend to do is we keep
Caption: focusing on the method we keep trying to
Caption: dress it up we keep trying to do
Caption: different things dude we put a new dress
Caption: on it make it look good we put reactive
Caption: styles on it we do all these things but
Caption: call a couplings just sitting there the
Caption: whole time we kind of focus on one of
Caption: those elements but we don't focus on all
Caption: five so if we come back to what oh-hoh
Caption: originally was if you go back to Alan
Caption: Kay who actually coined the term object
Caption: orientation well he's actually kind of
Caption: upset that he called it object
Caption: orientation because the focus was on
Caption: messaging it wasn't on objects so that's
Caption: what we kind of think of when we see Oh
Caption: Oh lovely bubbles and lines between it
Caption: and stuff like that but if our
Caption: mainstream oo is using methods to get
Caption: these objects to talk these methods have
Caption: five different coupling points different
Caption: number of parameters different number of
Caption: exceptions all those coupling methods
Caption: look different they're shaped different
Caption: they look more like connecting jigsaw
Caption: piece puzzles
Caption: so when we actually look at mainstream
Caption: that's what we get 400 rigid you can't
Caption: move why haven't we been successful be
Caption: able to move an object between different
Caption: applications well it's like taking a
Caption: jigsaw piece and trying to use it in
Caption: different jigsaw pieces to complete it
Caption: doesn't work
Caption: why is refactoring so hard you have to
Caption: move all these jigsaw pieces around and
Caption: so forth it it's difficult it's rigid
Caption: it's not this lovely graph but we've
Caption: actually kind of come to believe it was
Caption: and even that concept what do we need
Caption: that so let's start looking at
Caption: unplugging you from the yellow matrix so
Caption: the first thing let's get rid of the
Caption: name we just use a lambda lambda unnamed
Caption: function right we just wrap it up sweet
Caption: that's pretty simple that's done right I
Caption: can change the name now to that method
Caption: and all my callers just don't need to
Caption: know the name we could just change under
Caption: the hood that's pretty cool
Caption: so we've kind of got rid of one of the
Caption: problems but it's still a couple F so
Caption: let's tackle the exception well we can
Caption: just inject handlers for every exception
Caption: that method throws inject a handler for
Caption: a pretty simple code now my methods will
Caption: never actually propagate their
Caption: perceptions back to the client when you
Caption: think about how we do most things you
Caption: would usually escalate an exception in
Caption: an office to a manager you don't
Caption: actually tell your sales people oh sorry
Caption: we can't do this right now so we you
Caption: know we can inject that well then we
Caption: still got more problems well we can get
Caption: the same process absolutely thread let's
Caption: just inject an executor now I can choose
Caption: a different execution who to execute
Caption: that method now it could be the same
Caption: thread as the caller by just using a
Caption: sink respond that just calls through or
Caption: it could be a sewing thread pool it's
Caption: now wrapped up I can choose that and
Caption: what execute that method I'm kind of
Caption: just left with one now and this one
Caption: we've already solved we do in our web
Caption: service all the time he's a risk quest
Caption: constant if request context so think
Caption: about a controller when it wants to put
Caption: the data to the view loads everything
Caption: into the request context then the view
Caption: can pick it up from there well we do the
Caption: same thing as we call these methods we
Caption: load it to a context and then dependency
Caption: injected into the further methods down
Caption: the line now I can pass State down all
Caption: those methods
Caption: so putting it all together and don't try
Caption: and read Ocoee there's the slides are
Caption: downloadable and I'll put the link up
Caption: later but there you go what we've been
Caption: our done it was we've inverted this
Caption: problem a call now is the same the whole
Caption: time
Caption: it doesn't change it's always going to
Caption: be one message our implementation
Caption: however could be whatever it wants I can
Caption: change it I can add more dependencies I
Caption: can change the threading of it I can
Caption: even change exceptions out of it and so
Caption: forth they even say what the other
Caption: stream things I call they can all just
Caption: quite happily change and my caller
Caption: doesn't even know just passed us a
Caption: message through so with those things
Caption: we've got the decoupling garment so to
Caption: compare this and go this is the
Caption: difference between your dependency
Caption: injection and an in actual what I
Caption: consider an inversion of control or
Caption: inversion of coupling control container
Caption: dependence each kind of says here's
Caption: here's the fields you inject and we kind
Caption: of do that threading and all that
Caption: modeling and all the rest of it yeah
Caption: that's your problem you deal with it we
Caption: do that stuff but you know threading is
Caption: hard we don't you know lots of junior
Caption: developers on our team we wouldn't want
Caption: to have to have them do all that part so
Caption: I've got little pieces and things all
Caption: connected together and they're all
Caption: joined why the method trying to move
Caption: them around doesn't work well this does
Caption: it that's simple good a code and we
Caption: actually only write this when it comes
Caption: to the office full framework which
Caption: actually implements this these concepts
Caption: because we can derive everything in that
Caption: box from the method signature if you
Caption: know it's a continue if you know it's
Caption: one of the continuation or handlers you
Caption: can determine that by the parameter type
Caption: it's not that then it's one of the
Caption: dependencies you need to inject in and
Caption: you can even work out the thread because
Caption: I could look at the parameters and go ah
Caption: that one needs a data source or it needs
Caption: an entity manager I need to put that on
Caption: its own synchronous thread pool if it's
Caption: not well I could probably execute on the
Caption: current thread and be safe because it
Caption: can't get anything else without it being
Caption: injected
Caption: so that's kind of working great 400 and
Caption: I did mention functional programming now
Caption: functions have the same problem as much
Caption: as they would like to say thank you
Caption: still have it okay they don't really
Caption: throw exceptions but they didn't return
Caption: them as values the problem is still
Caption: there
Caption: but a wouldn't dare suggest that
Caption: functional programming if you loop learn
Caption: from I whoa I'd probably be blamed right
Caption: you for that so what I'm gonna do is I'm
Caption: gonna you know functional program
Caption: they're listening to mathematics so does
Caption: anyone know who Carl jacob' is well he
Caption: was the one that did foundational work
Caption: in Eclipse elliptic functions so if you
Caption: know what elliptic functions are they
Caption: create elliptic curves will it because
Caption: well they're public private key
Caption: foundations and that's big point there
Caption: yo there's my mandatory Bitcoin
Caption: reference so what Carl what Carl Jakobi
Caption: said is in there always invert if the
Caption: problem is too hard to express and
Caption: clarify invert the problem to get
Caption: clarity on the problem now there's a
Caption: perception that functional programming
Caption: is hard I mean it's it's elegant it's
Caption: beautiful it's got typing it's looking
Caption: all this type of stuff but when my type
Caption: error actually starts going multiple
Caption: lines I'm scratching my head and I'm
Caption: going okay so it could be perceived as
Caption: hard so can we actually take inverting
Caption: to the functional language well when you
Caption: look at function composition the
Caption: parameter coupling just expands out
Caption: because you never actually pull anything
Caption: in underneath you're always passing in
Caption: and this is why they say functional
Caption: primary doesn't need a penny injection
Caption: cuz you always pass it in through the
Caption: higher or function so you never actually
Caption: you never calls out when everything is
Caption: always passed the function so you what
Caption: happens is everything gets passed the
Caption: function as you start putting more
Caption: function together it just gets wider and
Caption: more complex
Caption: so if we flipped that and did the same
Caption: principles to this well we turn it
Caption: upside down I send it a message and he
Caption: can send send messages to other
Caption: functions and it can send message it's
Caption: not the functions pretty much an
Caption: actor/model and if you actually do in
Caption: version control and functions it creates
Caption: you an actor/model actually creates a
Caption: much better actor mode because most
Caption: actor models are employed with single
Caption: threads per actor this uses prototype
Caption: threads if any one sing that edge of
Caption: computer science I can use one thread
Caption: and do a hundred thousand well actually
Caption: on this laptop with a gig I can do a
Caption: million actives quite quickly and I can
Caption: create and destroy actors at a hundred
Caption: thousand a second because I'm not
Caption: actually creating threads it actually
Caption: just creates these in-memory
Caption: representations and then just destroys
Caption: them and because it's the best analogy I
Caption: can think of it is if you go to a
Caption: business say are can I say have a home
Caption: line well do you know how many
Caption: departments get involved in that you
Caption: know what a well if you're in a
Caption: functional language you probably find
Caption: out with all the you know we're going to
Caption: expose all that stuff here you just send
Caption: it to and then it just goes and send
Caption: messages off to the roof bits and pieces
Caption: so all my theory that's nice
Caption: where do we see this
Caption: well what's the pattern behind a micro
Caption: service you get an object you turn it
Caption: into JSON or XML and then you send it
Caption: over the wire and HTTP or you send it in
Caption: a message queue after some service sir
Caption: what's the service to do the service are
Caption: injects its dependencies it might inject
Caption: other client calls to other micro
Caption: services and then it picks a thread to
Caption: actually execute it it's just the same
Caption: pattern
Caption: however it's heavy weights got a lot
Caption: involved and here sidecars and all these
Caption: other bits and pieces to them oh that's
Caption: a lot of lot of stuff just to make a
Caption: call
Caption: so what we're actually doing with ISC is
Caption: just doing it at the function level you
Caption: can just call straight through sends a
Caption: message it's just the länder function
Caption: that takes the parameter which is
Caption: effectively a message and then just
Caption: calls it different route and it's done
Caption: at the method level much more
Caption: lightweight and it grows it's what
Caption: happens is I just take one of those
Caption: lines I'm making the cube now I can have
Caption: them those two graphs and separate
Caption: processes and then as it gets bigger and
Caption: bigger I can sort of get further lines
Caption: and make them queues and then you can
Caption: just grow we kind of get this organic
Caption: growth you dare say that actually these
Caption: systems get easier to build the more
Caption: there is of them there's more things to
Caption: wire up and hook so I'm gonna leave you
Caption: with a final thought on this and I feel
Caption: sorry yes Alan Kay is now getting his
Caption: vision so he's happy you might come back
Caption: again
Caption: the final thought is what does the
Caption: method actually represent and actually
Caption: represents pushing and popping things
Caption: off the stack which effectively
Caption: represents a machine where in the world
Caption: do you see thread stats I mean Alan Kay
Caption: got his Oh a vision from chemistry
Caption: I took the office floor designs from how
Caption: an office interact was usual
Caption: messaging we see neural synapses as
Caption: passing messages where's where where do
Caption: we see a thread stack in the real world
Caption: they sing in the machine so if we design
Caption: our API is based on methods and those
Caption: things we're designing them coupled to
Caption: machines rather than a much more organic
Caption: model and now how do I refactor that I
Caption: just redraw a line I need something else
Caption: to call something I'll just draw a line
Caption: if the message that goes through it then
Caption: it needs to be something slightly
Caption: different
Caption: well I can just put another method in
Caption: the form and transform that message and
Caption: then call it on yeah yeah my refactoring
Caption: job turned instead of being hours and
Caption: probably days of trying to turn some
Caption: engine and that machine that's highly
Caption: coupled is this jigsaw my refactorings
Caption: now like couple minutes and then I get
Caption: on with something else
Caption: for the day I initially just brought the
Caption: refactoring and this isn't just theory
Caption: this is actually a production ready
Caption: framework that's actually ready to use
Caption: that is actually a configuration one of
Caption: the apps that we built with it
Caption: how'd you like to go into an app and see
Caption: that and go that's how it will works and
Caption: then you can just drill into that and
Caption: double click on that and drill and down
Caption: to where the code is and then if I have
Caption: to change things I can wire things even
Caption: if I need to prove new things with the
Caption: flows I can do it that's a very simple
Caption: app you can imagine this can get quite
Caption: big quite complex and still give you
Caption: that visualization into it I always find
Caption: dependency apps they're a bit like
Caption: here's a novel I'm gonna rip out every
Caption: page throw it on the floor and say put
Caption: that two back together wiring half the
Caption: dependencies hook up how do these pages
Caption: will get ordered together it doesn't
Caption: really tell you here because we use the
Caption: wiring and the method flows as
Caption: configuration we can graphically
Caption: represent it and then give you a
Caption: overview of how your app actually works
Caption: then you can take that to the business
Caption: and you can show them how all the bits
Caption: and pieces work and it's it's it's much
Caption: much easier like it's easy isn't what I
Caption: call a floor plan
Caption: of your actual application so in summary
Caption: when you actually look at the pendency
Caption: injection compared to what I consider a
Caption: version of coupling control is a silent
Caption: coupling in there you can see dependency
Caption: injection is actually only one of them
Caption: there's four others well is two others
Caption: but there are four other aspects they're
Caption: covered off by when I consider thread
Caption: injection and if anyone knows a bit
Caption: about continuation injection or better
Caption: way to think about that is this
Caption: functional injection or Method injection
Caption: there's a few links there who I am I'm
Caption: the founder of the framework and what
Caption: we're looking for is well we've built it
Caption: we've proven it we're building our apps
Caption: in it it's now time and if I use the
Caption: matrix analogy I'm Morpheus I'm looking
Caption: for the Neos I'm looking for those early
Caption: adopters those people want to try it out
Caption: and their hobby project those who want
Caption: to take it to their I'm looking for you
Caption: to take it on and and drive it out and
Caption: fight back against the machine whenever
Caption: I hear API design I'm going are there's
Caption: an agent you know I might even say the
Caption: same about functional programmers
Caption: there's another agent they move faster
Caption: smart but they're still bound by the
Caption: coupling laws so to say there's a slide
Caption: says my handles I'm here all day you've
Caption: got any questions I can add probably
Caption: time some now and I'll be around for all
Caption: day to answer questions
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: all right we have probably have time for
Caption: just one question so if anyone wants to
Caption: hand out oh here we go can you briefly
Caption: describe what the hosting model looks
Caption: like for these applications they're
Caption: literally just a normal app like you
Caption: think about a spring app you just can
Caption: host it in anything we run on I mean
Caption: Google Cloud I can run it it's just a
Caption: Java right basically so you can run any
Caption: of it and host itself it doesn't need
Caption: anything special it's just how you build
Caption: it you can even put these into your
Caption: servlet containers so you just get them
Caption: in they run anywhere but they run as I
Caption: say they don't need stream threading
Caption: models because they actually take them
Caption: they can inherit the threading model
Caption: from the container and then work through
Caption: that too so yeah so you just take
Caption: advantage of that as an underlying
Caption: platform cool all right thank you so
Caption: much Daniel I'm gonna struggle to shake
Caption: your hand right now but that is a token
Caption: of our appreciation thank you I hope
Caption: everyone enjoyed it
Caption: we are heading out for morning tea now
Caption: out in the foyers and then the next
Caption: sessions will be beginning at 10:55
Caption: thanks guys